---
title: "Scitech at eScience21"
image: /images/news/escience21.png
description: "The Pegasus (SciTech) group actively participated in several events and presented talks in workshops, posters, and presented papers at eScience 2021."
date: 29 September 2021
layout: post
categories:
  - news
---

The Pegasus (SciTech) group will be actively participating in several events and presenting talks in workshops, posters, and presenting papers at eScience 2021. Find below a list of events where you can meet our team. We look forward to seeing you!

**Monday, September 20th:**

PRESENTATION: Pegasus 5.0 Workflows Speakers: Karan Vahi(Speaker)USC Information Sciences Institute and Ryan Tanaka(Speaker)USC Information Sciences Institute
Abstract: Workflows are a key technology for enabling complex scientific computations. They capture the interdependencies between processing steps in data analysis and simulation pipelines as well as the mechanisms to execute those steps reliably and efficiently. Workflows can capture complex processes to promote sharing and reuse, and also provide provenance information necessary for the verification of scientific results and scientific reproducibility. Pegasus (<a href="https://pegasus.isi.edu">https://pegasus.isi.edu</a>) is being used in a number of scientific domains doing production grade science. The goal of the tutorial is to introduce the benefits of modelling pipelines in a portable way with use of scientific workflows. We will examine the workflow lifecycle at a high level and issues and challenges associated with various steps in the workflow lifecycle such as creation, execution and monitoring and debugging. Through hands-on exercises in a hosted Jupyter notebook environment, we will describe an application pipeline as a Pegasus workflow using Pegasus Workflow API and execute the pipeline on distributed computing infrastructures. The attendees will leave the tutorial with knowledge on how to model their pipelines in a portable fashion using Pegasus workflow and run them on varied computing environments.
<b><a href="https://dps.uibk.ac.at/~philipp/escience2021/pegasus/eScience2021_Tutorial_Slides.pdf">Tutorial Slides</a></b>

**Tuesday, September 21st:**

INFRASTRUCTURE TRACK Tuesday, September 21st – Towards an Infrastructure for Enabling Systematic Development and Research of Scientific Workflow Systems and Applications
Author: Rafael Ferreira da Silva(Speaker)Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Senior Research Scientist

**Wednesday, September 22nd:**

POSTER Wednesday, September 22nd – CrisisFlow: Multimodal Representation Learning Workflow for Crisis Computing
Authors: Patrycja Krawczuk; Shubham Nagarkar; Ewa Deelman – Speaker Patrycja Krawczuk(Speaker)University of Southern California, Research Assistant –
Abstract: An increasing number of people use social media (SM) platforms like Twitter and Instagram to report critical emergencies or disaster events. Multimodal data shared on these platforms often contain useful information about the scale of the event, victims, and infrastructure damage. The data can provide local authorities and humanitarian organizations with a big-picture understanding of the emergency (situational awareness). Moreover, it can be used to effectively and timely plan relief responses. In our project, we aim to address the challenge of finding relevant information among the vast amount of published SM posts. Specifically, we use deep learning algorithms to produce embeddings that encode the informativeness of multimodal SM data in the context of disaster events. Our method improves the state-of-the-art performance on the informative vs. non-informative classification task for the CrisisMMD dataset. To ensure the reliability and scalability of our solution in real-world scenarios, we implement the resulting crisis computing workflow in the Pegasus Workflow Management System (WMS).

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2qMrNteZpm0" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></br></br>

POSTER Wednesday, September 22nd – A Case Study in Scientific Reproducibility from the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT)
Authors: Ross Ketron; Jacob Leonard; Brandan Roachell; Ria Patel; Rebecca White; Silvina Caino-Lores; Nigel Tan; Patrick Miles; Karan Vahi; Ewa Deelam; Duncan A. Brown; Michela Taufer – Speaker: Silvina Caino-Lores(Speaker)University of Tennessee
Abstract:This poster presents the first results of an interdisciplinary project aiming to develop and share sustainable knowledge necessary to analyze, understand, and use published scientific results to advance reproducibility in multi-messenger astrophysics. Specifically, the project targets breakthrough work associated with the First M87 Event Horizon Telescope (EHT) and delivers recommendations on how the published results of the first black hole can be effectively reproduced. The project has the potential to advance new discovery in multi-messenger astrophysics by providing guidance for generalizing methods and findings from use cases.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8SedCU-fY9I" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></br></br>

POSTER Wednesday, September 22nd – Predicting Flash Floods in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex Using Workflows and Cloud Computing
Authors: Eric Lyons; Dong-Jun Seo; Sunghee Kim; Hamideh Habibi; George Papadimitriou; Ryan Tanaka; Ewa Deelman; Michael Zink; Anirban Mandal – Speaker: Eric Adams(Speaker)University of MA Amherst
Abstract: Accurate and timely prediction of flash flooding events can be a very useful tool for stormwater officials and f irst responders. Having lead time with which to issue evacuation directives, to close flood prone roadways, to deploy rescue gear and personnel, and to fortify areas against flooding is essential to minimize property damage and risk of casualties. In this poster, we are presenting a flash flooding prediction workflow based on the Hydrology Lab-Research Distributed Hydrologic Model (HL-RDHM). This workflow leverages cloud computing and the Pegasus Workflow Management System to provide continuous high resolution flood predictions for the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex area in North Texas, and can be easily expanded to other regions.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_-UlnPEtm74" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe></br></br>


**Thursday, September 23rd:**

PAPER Serverless Containers – Rising Viable Approach to Scientific Workflows Speakers: Maciej Pawlik(Speaker)AGH University of Science and Technology
