---
title: "Job: Postdoctoral Fellow 
image: /images/news/job add graphic.jpg
The USC Information Sciences Institute’s Science Automation Group (SciTech) is seeking to hire a 
Postdoctoral Fellow with a Ph.D. degree in computer science. The position involves working on 
projects related to scientific workflow management, distributed systems, and the application of AI 
technologies and solutions to the management of scientific workflows in distributed environments. 
The group is led by Professor Ewa Deelman, an international leader in distributed systems, high-
performance systems, and scientific workflow management systems. Her group conducts research in a 
number of areas including resource and data management, job scheduling, provenance tracking, and the 
use of clouds for science. Her group has led the design and development of the Pegasus Workflow 
Management software, which has been adopted in a number of scientific domains and contributed to the 
LIGO’s first ever direct detection of gravitational waves.  The PostDoc position involves working on 
DOE and NSF funded projects, advancing the knowledge about distributed systems, developing novel 
algorithms for distributed resource and workload management, simulating and emulating systems, as 
well as experimentation and evaluation at scale. The position involves work in a collaborative 
environment working with group members as well as researchers at other universities and DOE 
laboratories. A successful candidate will have the desire to conduct research, learn new 
technologies, be able to analyze and interpret results of complex experiments on real systems and to 
publish these results in peer-reviewed publications. The ideal candidate will have knowledge of 
distributed system, data analysis methods, hands-on systems experience, and a publication record at 
the level of someone with a recent Ph.D. Knowledge of artificial intelligence techniques: deep 
learning or swarm intelligence is a plus but is not required.
   

---


